If you only have the "archetypes" and "treasures" files, you should fetch
some map-files by ftp.
A sample of map-files can be found by anonymous ftp to ftp.ifi.uio.no
in the file "/pub/crossfire/crossfire-<version>.maps.tar.Z".
Remember to fetch a version of maps which matches this version of crossfire.
If you fetch that file, just replace this lib-directory with the
lib-directory inside the tar-file.

Any files in this directory can be compressed if you want to save space.
It is adviced, though, that the "maps" file is not compressed, since
it is accessed often.

Some info on the different files:
---------------------------------

The "archetypes" file contains lots of generalized objects which makes it
easier for the program to use similar items over and over again.  This
file is created from the archetypes in the arch directory.

The "treasures" file contains all kinds of randomized treasure, to be used when
an archetype is generated from the "archetypes" file.

The file "highscore", of course, contains the highscores...

The "motd" file contains any messages to the players as they start the game.
You can define where you want to place it in the file config.h.

The "shutdown" file, if it is here, gives the contents as a message to
the players, then stops the game.  In effect, the presence of this
file will stop new players from entering the game.

The "forbid" file, if it is here, gives info on which times of the game
it is allowed to play crossfire.  Read "config.h" in the source directory
for instructions on how to set up such a file.

The directory "players", if it is here, contains saved players.  You can
define where you want this directory to be in the file config.h.

The directory "adm", if it is here, contains administrive scripts and their
log-files.  (Check the ADMDIR variable in the Imakefile if it's not here.)

crossfire.pix is where the color pixmaps (XPM) files are stored.
It is in one file for faster reading.  Compressing this file with
gnuzip reduces from about 1500 K to about 122K (yes, less than 10%
of the size).  This is a very good file to keep compressed if you
use color pixmaps, as it is only used when adding a new player who desires
to use the color pixmap features.
